♪ [music] ♪
Another way that we can host our
applications is on GitHub Pages.
Now, this probably isn't the greatest way
to host your application because it uses a
bit of a hack, and we'll go into that in
just a second. However,
if you just need to get something online,
if you want to show it to other people,
it's free hosting and it's
really easy to do.
So, what I've done here is set up a new
blank GitHub repo, and I'm going to go to
my Sublime Text and open up my Terminal.
Now before we actually run npm run
build, what happens is that, this
"getting-fishy" is going to be my repo
name and "wesbos" is my GitHub name. So
the effective URL for this is going to be
"wesbos.github.io/getting-fishy" and
what's different about that is not that
there's a subdomain...that's fine...but
what's different about that is that it's
going to be running sort of in a subfolder
where "getting-fishy/store/clean-children"
or something like that, right? So this
part, how do we account for that.
So far it's always just been
"/store/clean-kitchen." So what we need to
do is a couple things here.
First of all, we need to go into our
package.json and specify a home page.
This is going to tell create React app
where to make the link path.
So, we are going to add a home page, and
then you need to type in
"wesbos.github.io" or obviously your repo
here .../the repo name. That's
really important because when we get back
to these URLs here, our CSS isn't going to
be "/static/style.css" It's going to be
"/getting-fishy/static/style.css." So it's
really important that we add that home
page parameter here and create React app,
when we run build, is going to take
that into account when creating its URL.
So, no problem there. However, we also
need to open up our index.js and we need
to modify our React router here to run in
a subfolder. If you've ever tried to run
React router before in a subfolder, you
know that it just pushes it to forward
slash. And we need to tell it that
everything is going to be living at
"/getting-fishy." So the way that we do
that is we say "basename=" and
then "/getting-fishy/."
One little trick that I've done before is
that I'll create a quick variable from the
URL. So I'll say "const repo =" some
back text, and I'm just going to take...
Let's say I'm at this URL right here. I've
got [removed].pathname.
And what you can do is you can split that
on a forward slash, and you can grab the
second item, and that's going to give you
the repo name. In this case,
it says "wesbos," but if it was
"/getting-fishy/storeid" then it would
give me "getting-fishy."
I'm going to take the
[removed].pathname.split, and then
I'll grab the second thing that comes in,
and that will only work for GitHub Pages
because GitHub Pages is always going to be
"your username.github.io/the repo
name." So that's the repo. Then we can
just pop the repo into there.
Here. Good.
So, now we need to go back to our iTerm
here and run "npm run build." That is
going to create a build directory so cd
into build. I'm going to initialize a git
repo. I'm going to add the
remote, git add -A
git commit - m.
I'm going to put a fish
in my commit. And then I'm going to push
everything up to the master branch.
Good. Again, I only did that with the
build directory, not the entire
catch-of-the-day. If you already have a
repo in catch-of-the-day,
you can create what's called a git sub
module where you can just have a separate
git repo for that specific build folder.
So, now, if I refresh this getting fishy,
I have my master branch with my
index.html. If you go to settings, scroll
down, and under Github Pages you can set
it to be your master branch.
It will then give you a URL:
wesbos.github.io/getting-fishy. Then you
can go to that URL and your application is
working.
So let's try it out, visit the store. It's
not going to work just yet if I try
logging in because I need to add github.io
to my Firebase. I'll do that in a second.
But the problem is... Watch when I
refresh: we get a GitHub 404.
And that's because GitHub doesn't know
that there's a folder called "store" and a
folder called
"old-fashioned-mysterious-teeth."
Also, GitHub doesn't really offer any
routing at all. They only offer you two
things: an index.html, which we took
advantage of right here.
However, when we change the URL with push
date and someone refreshes,
it hits a 404. So sort of the hack we can
do here is rename our index.html to
be also 404.
So, if I copy the index to be 404.html,
and you can see a couple things.
There are some other workarounds and you
can use something called Surge and there
are static build tools here. But, at the
very basic, if you just take your
index.html and dupe it over to 404, and
add it, and commit it, and push it,
then when GitHub hits a 404, it's going to
serve up your index.html file in your 404.
And it will actually just work for you, no
problem there. Let's check that it's in my
repo here. Here we go, 404 to html.
Now we can refresh.
Sometimes it takes a second on GitHub
Pages to actually work. So if it's not
working for you, maybe give it a couple of
minutes. There we go.
Now when I refresh, an actual store name
is coming to it. The only downside here is
you are technically sending the browser a
404 code, telling it that it didn't work.
It did, but you're telling it that it
didn't work. So if you're doing anything
with SEO or catching this page, then some
people might get confused,
especially Google. So don't use this for
anything in production.
But again if you want to get something up
and running, if you want client-side
routing with that catch-all,
you can use 404.html.
Next up, I'm going to show you how you
actually can use this on your own server,
whether that's an Apache
or an Nginx server.